Hello this is Carol from Florida DOT com.
And welcome to part four of our series of call for tutorials for complete beginners.
Today we'll be talking about Boolean operations and boolean parables.
So this is the Mirror editor programming environment.
And let's go ahead and creating your script.
We do this by clicking the New button in the top left corner.
Then we'd expect script next and give us the name.
I'm just going to call mind tural for them.
Could you check that this is indeed our information and we don't need any parameters.
And then we just put in ASH and there we go that's our script template.
I'm just going to get rid of these two lines which are actually comments and are not necessary and I
will start off by talking about Boolean expressions.
So any boolean expression can have one of two distinct values.
True false.
So there's only two values and no more than that was an example of four is less than five.
This is an expression and in the world of em killed for when the program's running this expression will
actually be replaced by its result and the result of this expression is true because four is actually
less than 5.
So this value if true will be put instead of this expression and how we can check this is by adding
the word statement and in that way.
So just compile that will go to the terminal and find 2 or 4 and we'll run it.
And as you can see it returns a value of true that's good.
Just a couple here to remember.
Now let's look at another one.
Say 10 is greater than 100.
We expect this expect this one to be false.
I'll have a look.
So choose the first one and the second statement is false which is correct.
Let's look another one alert.
And we want to check if two equals three.
So as you can remember from last for the last Tauriel equals the single equals is the peroration for
assignment for checking if two values are the same.
We need to do double equals.
So that's how we check if two equals three.
This one we also expect to be false compile.
Let's check that.
The truth is the first one also the second statement 10 is not greater than 100.
And last one is false as well.
Two is not equal to three.
All right.
So in
Q4 we have six different logical operations and I'll just list in here.
So it's a double equals is to check if two expressions are equal.
So much more call is to check if two expressions are not equal less than greater than less than or equal
to and greater than or equal to.
So that's basically all of the logical expressions.
And we've already used three here in our examples the next step is to look at how we can actually store
the results of these expressions and variables.
So I'll just comment that because we don't need it.
And move it back by pressing shift tab shift happens we'll move to move back and tabus to move forward.
So we're back to keep our consistent formatting and we'll look at a boolean variable we'll call it result
and we'll give this variable.
The result of we'll assign this variable the result of the expression for is less than 5.
So for us and five that's true.
So the value true will be substituted here and it will be recorded into result and then we'll print
result out using an early stage.
So what do we expect to see is true on our screen as we go in just one alert and is true.
That's that's great.
That means everything is working as we expect.
Is this true.
So in that way you can store results of logical expressions in boolean variables and that will come
in very handy when in the next tutorial we talk about what the while loop that's over today and maybe
have a play around with these other logical expressions and hope that tutorial was useful and see you
on the next one until then.